---
layout: post
title: To Do
cases: 475
hospital: 49
deaths: 5
cdphe: https://covid19.colorado.gov/sites/covid19/files/COVID-19%20Case%20Summary%203_21_20.pdf
---

I did not sleep well last night. I lay awake thinking of what I needed to do before Thursday, when my situation may begin to improve or begin to unravel. Not much to do for an improved situation, but if things unravel quickly, it feels like there is too much do. There are tactical issues, like moving liquid assets into our joint accounts to avoid escrow, but also emotional issues, like leaving some lasting goodbye to my kids. What could I do now, say now, that would help buoy them in the days and years to come? Randy Pausch's last lecture comes to mind. I don't have the time for something of that magnitude, but I think I need to write each of them and Michelle a letter to accompany the legal will. These letters will be difficult to write. All the while keeping in mind that the planning is just a contingency; the aim is that these letters will not need to be opened for multiple decades to come. 

I also decided to write a letter to a couple of the NREL executives that I have periodic interactions with. I have been frustrated with NREL for the past several months, and have vocally criticized some of the leadership's decisions. However, the COVID-19 response from NREL's leadership has been exemplary. On March 6th, when Colorado was reporting just one case, the Leadership Team shut down the Energy System Integration Facility, my building, because an employee reported symptoms after traveling through an airport in one of the most impacted countries. That employee tested negative, and the building reopened a few days later. The Leadership Team began encouraging remote work and restricting business travel. On March 12th, they closed another building due to another possible exposure -- that CDC test is still pending. By March 16th, the Leadership Team had transitioned from encouraging remote work to requiring remote work for everyone who can work remotely -- a move that protects the staff that have to be on campus. Perhaps most impressively, they quickly liberalized the Lab's Extended Sick Leave policy for COVID-19 related issues. Many of the decisions make perfect sense in hindsight, but just two weeks ago, it would have been easy to criticize much of this as over-reach. This letter was comparatively easy to write:

> Rob & Juan,
>
> At the risk of spamming your inboxes, I wanted to drop you a quick note and thank you and the rest of the NREL Leadership Team for your COVID-19 response. Particularly in light of hearing from friends and family who have experienced ham-fisted, callous, and dangerously irresponsible responses from their employers, I sincerely appreciate the response from the NREL Leadership Team, which has been timely, thoughtful, and forward-leaning. 
> 
> I know that you have had to make many difficult decisions in the past weeks, and more lay ahead. Thank you for your hard work. And thank you for protecting the NREL staff, their families, and community.
> 
> -Kenny
> 
> Kenny Gruchalla, Ph.D.  
> Senior Scientist
